This is our Group 7 project for DSCI445 @ CSU. The project focuses on defensive strategies in the NFL. We aim to predcit play outcome and offensive success using different models and addressing multiple research question. We received our data from the 2021 NFL Big Data Bowl competition. To replicate all of our results you can run any our of .Rmd files. They are not locally dependent and all libraries will both install and be utilized from those .Rmd files. We recommend starting with out "Project Presentation.Rmd" file first. Knit this to HTML/ioslides to view it properly. It is important that you do not knit to pdf for the project presentation file. We then recommend going to our "Project Paper.Rmd" file. Knit this file to pdf for the optimal viewing experience. If you would like to view our models and calculations closer the "Intro Data Exploration.Rmd" file contains our data quality report, individual variables analysis and visuals, as well as combinations of variables visually. It is the bulk our of EDA or exploratory data analysis. Moving from there going to the "Data Cleaning, EDA, Exploratory Modeling.Rmd" file contains the bulk of our work. It has data cleaning, futhur EDA focusing on our research question, and our linear and GAM models. It also contains our secondary research question along with a logistic, random forest, and XGBoost models. The "Data Modeling Work.Rmd" contains our final research question about predecting EPA or expected points added using pre-snap predictors. The models used here were KNN, radial SVM, random forest, ridge, and lasso modeling techniques.
